Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming. In the previous couple
of tutorials we learned so much about
data frames that we are now ready
to proceed to the fun stuff to
visualization we can finally start
visualizing our results and today we'll
learn a brand new function a very
powerful function which is called Q plot.
Alright, so let me introduce you to Q
plot. I'm going to create a new section
in R code and I'm going to say
introduction, 2q plot.
Alright so where do you find Qplot?
Well if you just type in Qplots and if
you type in the question mark, nothing will happen
because no documentation for Qplot,
couldn't find it,
not there, where did it go? Well in
order to get Qplot, you need to
install a package. We've talked about this
package already a little bit.
It's called the GGplot2 package. Let's go
ahead if you don't have it, then you need
to type in install packages and in
quotation marks GGplot2. I'm not going to
do that, I'm going to come out this line
and if you're not sure if you have it
then just trying this line first library
GGplot2 and if I run this here what you
get is I've installed GGplot2 and I get
this interesting new comment is a great
place to get help okay. Well GGplot2
is installed. If you've got an error then you
might need to first actually download
the package and then run this line so
basically just run this line. It will
download the package onto a machine and
then you can install the library.
Alright so and we talked about this in
the library's tutorial way back,
ok so hopefully you've got that sorted
and now you have GGplot2 and now if you
check Qplot, question mark. If you check Qplot,
you will see that the help has updated
so let's zoom in over here. We can see
that we've got the Qplot function. It's
got lots and lots of parameters, we are
not going to go through them right now
one by one, actually instead we're going
to start practicing. What's a better way
to learn than
to practice right? So instead of just
reading this boring theory,
let's go ahead and start building and
we'll learn as we go. Alright what do we
want to visualize? Well today it's just an
introduction to Qplot so we're not
actually solving the challenge. We're
just going to use our data set to do
a little bit of experimenting with Q
plot.
Alright, so let's say Qplot and then
in brackets what we want to type is just
two things, first we'll say data equals
stats so what we're doing here is we're
saying okay Qplot, I'm passing you
some data and that data is the start of
frame stat, so Qplot and GGplot
which are both functions from this
library. They both work with data
frames and finally now that we know
data frames we can finally work with
these functions and because they're so
powerful and so good it's it's great
that we can work with them finally. So
basically, we're saying Qplot, here
some data, it's called the star from
stats take it and everything I type in
further down in these brackets will
relate to this data set. Ok, Qplot says
okay because it knows that when you say
data equals something that means that
from now on this is the data that we
working with, great so we kind of
encapsulating or creating this shell for
Qplot to work inside.
Next we're saying x equals internet
users internet,
the only problem here is that the pop-up
doesn't come back up.
So what you see here is we no
longer need to say stats dollar sign
internet users because now Qplot
knows that everything we type we'll have
this at the start. We don't need to say
you could say it you could type in stats
dollar sign, but it is advised against that
so even in his book hardly we can who
came up with this package and we'll talk
more about ggplot2 further in the future
section of this course. But basically he
advises against doing that once you've
set the data set just stick to it and
just use the column names without any
dollar signs.
Alright so what happens if I run this
line, wow something already appeared.
It's a distribution and
here we've got the internet users so how
many countries fall into these bins and
the beauty about Qplot and
everything in GGplot2 is a lot of
stuff is done automatically for you
so the labels for the axes have been
added so here we've got introduced,
internet users. You've got count and then the
colors have been selected, you can see a
grid in the background. The beans have
been selected. You don't need to do anything
just wrote one line and what we got is
this a beautiful plot right away.
Ok so that's a great start, let's try
something else. Let's say a Qplot data
equals stats and then comma x equals
income group right and then we'll say y
equals birthright.
So what are we doing here? Well we're
saying put a categorical variable income
group so it'll will be categories on the
x-axis and put a numeric variable on the
y-axis. So let's run that, will keep plot on
doing this case.
Wow isn't that smart? It's already picked
the right representation for this
combination of data.
Ok what else can we do? We can take this
and we can pass it down another
parameter we can say size equals three.
Now let's see what happens if i run it
like this right now. You will see that
the size did change but then on the
right there's a legend why do we have a
legend if I just wanted to change the
size? What if i change the size to ten now?
If I run that, what you'll see is that they're the same
size still and what's going on is that
we are instead of just assigning the
value to this parameter we're mapping
it. So Qplot is kind of thinking that
this is going to need to create a legend
and different objects will have
different sizes on this plot and so on
so the correct way to work with Q plot
is you need to put I around the value
that you want to assign. So we won't go
into detail around why this is because
that would take quite a while to
understand and in fact we're just
working for with Q plot as a
transitional step to get to GGplot in
further sections of the course so for
now if you just want to
assign a value say a color red or a size
to your objects on a plot using Qplot, just
type the letter I around it so that way
Qplot or R will treat this number as
is instead of thinking that it should be
mapped to the data. Ok so let's just run
that and so here you'll see that there's
no more legend and these values are huge.
These circles are huge so let's take him
back to value of three.
Alright what else can we do with Q
plot and then once again this is a
tutorial just to get a quick overview of
Qplot and intro to Qplot so color,
maybe let's make a new line here. I'll
leave the comma here on this line and
then I'll say color equals I and around
I'll say inside I'll say blue and so
for us so I'll show again if I if I
don't say I and I run this and now it's
waiting for the second line because of
the comma and this plus sign over here so if I
run this. You see that's not blue, that's nowhere
near blue. It is a color but it's not
blue.
So make sure to put that I when you're
working with Qplot, okay if I run that,
there we go we've got blue beautiful so
you can control color, by the way both
American and Australian I'm going to say
Australian in this case British of
course British English work so you can
type of the you or you don't have to
type the you whatever is your preference
I like typing the you. Okay and another
one is let's do the same thing
no color but this time and actually no
size but this time we'll pass a
parameter will say geom equals box plot
so we all know what box plots are so if I
run that, there you go, Qplot has created a box
plot for you. You didn't have to anything you
just told that I want a box plot create a
box but for you.
That's how smart this function is and
that is what we are going to be working
with in this section and actually
actually how about this? How about what
we're going to do in the next tutorial
is we're going to you know visualize
what we're supposed to according to a
challenge but why don't you give it a go
and see if you can get
it to achieve what we're after and in
the next tutorial we'll do it together
and then you can compare your results.
Alright and I look forward to seeing you
then, until next time happy coding.